# Quote Scraper
#### Video Demo:  https://youtu.be/t2d_sqOiscQ
#### Description: Hello and welcome to my final project for CS50P! I developed the script for this project with the goal of satisfying two challenges. The first was, of course, to create something worthy of a final project. The second being that said project be relevant in one way or another to the field of data analytics. The reason for that “second” is that I thoroughly enjoy the process of analysing information – whether it be numbers, statistics, or what have you. Half the work of analysis does involve looking over several pieces of data, but the other half is all about telling a story. I think that I am a fairly creative individual, so storytelling is something that generally appeals to me. This project incorporates both techniques for collecting data for analysis as well as a touch of storytelling to keep things interesting. I agree with the notion, shared by many, that if you are going to create something; put your efforts into it – at least let it be something you enjoy!

#### Before starting on this project, I did have some prior knowledge on the concept of web scraping. Simply put, it’s the act of employing a script or a service which can parse the contents of a webpage and retrieve certain data which is then collected. This scraped data can be applied towards various projects like analysis for example. I wanted to dive a little deeper into this process and attempt it myself, so I decided to start somewhere relatively simple. There are several websites that advertise themselves as “scrape-friendly”, meaning that the html behind them is often static and quite simple. They are meant to be a sort of practice grounds for folks who want to give web scraping a try. One of these sites contains several quotes by different authors, public figures, etc. This would be a perfect site to scrape.

#### The next step was to brainstorm the what, why, and how of this project. I knew that I wanted to scrape this webpage but what would I do with said data? How could I provide an experience for the user? I figured out that I wanted to show the user a quote, or perhaps several, which they could then save to a csv file if they wanted to. Csv felt the most natural because it is probably the most common type of file to work with when performing data analysis, as you can upload them to other software such as excel. Now that I had the what and why, I just needed the how. I began by thinking of the logic process that would be implemented in my code and it went a little something like this: step 1. Greet the user and ask them to choose from a list of categories, 2. Scrape the site and generate a random quote from the chosen category, 3. Display the quote and ask if the user would like to see another, 4. Create and save a csv file (or update an existing one) populated with all the quotes that appeared.

#### The final step was to write these steps out into real code. I started with importing all of the necessary libraries of course like requests, BeautifulSoup, and csv to name a few. Then I copy/pasted the template from the final project page on the CS50P site. I only needed to create one extra function to handle the creation/update of csv files, but the other three pertained to these functionality points (in no particular order): greeting the user and giving a little background on the project plus allowing them to choose from the given categories, scraping the quote site using requests and then using BeautifulSoup to parse the html while also extracting the quotes and figures by putting them into a list of dictionaries, and one function that asked the user if they were interested in creating a csv at all. I felt that all in all, this was the best and most efficient way of achieving what I sought out to build. Lastly, I wrote up some test functions which dealt with receiving correct input in the greeting function as well as accurate file handling in the csv creator function.

